welcome to recap in minutes
this tells a story of a two gifted
scientists who succeed in giving life to
beings of their own creation
but ends up not what they imagined
the monsters revenge through murder and
terror
spoilers ahead watch out and take care
in 1890s london igor worked as a clown
for a traveling circus
due to his hunchback which makes him not
be able to walk properly everyone treats
him poorly but igor is very smart and
draws beautifully detailed pictures of
human anatomy in his spare time a night
a medical student victor frankenstein
attends a circus performance
while performing in london an aerialist
named lorelei falls from her trapeze
victor and igor rushed to her aid and
igor impresses victor by saving
lorelei's life with his knowledge of
human anatomy acquired from stolen books
that night the circus owner burns eager
books and locks him in a cage because he
heard victor saying he is wasting in the
circus and too good to be around these
people
after sometimes victor comes to
liberates igor the circus leader
witnesses this and calls for the most of
the circus performers to chase them
one dies in the process and they escape
back in his townhome also laboratory
victor deduces that the hunch on igor's
back as a cyst
he drains it and puts igor in a harness
to correct his posture
igor can stand for the first time in his
life
victor descends to his basement
laboratory leaving igor to clean himself
up
the next morning inspector turpin and
his colleague alastair investigate the
murder of the circus worker
turpin discovers igor's sketches and a
bag that victor dropped the night before
it contains a lion's paw
turpan tells alistair to turns the
sketches into wanted posters the men are
wanted for murder
turpin tells alistair he believes
neither igor nor victor killed the
circus performer
however over the past several months a
mysterious man matching victor's
description has been buying and stealing
animals parts all over london
turpin a devout man believes victor is
up to something blasphemous later igor
finds the hospital where lorelei was
taken
he pays a maid to look after lorelei
on his way back to victor's townhouse he
sees the wanted posters in panics when
victor returns home from college he
assures igor that the authorities are
looking for a hunchback clown not the
new igor
victor tells igor his life's work is to
reverse death's permanence meaning to
bring back dead to life
he shows igor his latest experiment the
eyes of a man who died months ago by
preserving the eyes in a conductive
liquid and attaching them to electric
wires he can reanimate them by flipping
a switch
the eyes come to life and igor corrects
a mistake victor made
victor again is impressed and grateful
victor and igor embark on reanimating
different organs lungs a heart and other
body internal organs weeks pass and
lorelei finds a benefactor so her life
also improves after igor reanimates a
pair of lungs victor takes him to a high
society soiree
while victor is discussed with his
friends igor sees lorelei
at first she does not recognize him but
when she does she greets him warmly she
now masquerades as the mistress of a gay
baron
victor interrupts their reunion and
behaves rudely towards lorelei
although he intrigues her by talking
about the reversal of death at the end
of the night victor warns igor about
becoming too close to lorelei calling
her distraction
soon thereafter victor takes igor into
his basement laboratory and shows him
gordon the corpse of a gruesome
chimpanzee hybrid made up parts he stole
or purchased from zoos
thanks to igor's innovations victor now
believes he can reanimate gordon by
charging him with electricity igor's
confusion turns to absolute shock when
victor shocks gordon and brings the
creature back to life the next day
victor presents gordon and his
experiment at his college
few people attend the presentation and
the audience includes lorelei whom igor
invited and finnegan victor's snobbish
wealthy classmate
initially victor cannot resuscitate
gordon much to finnegan's sneering
delight
loriley looks disgusted by the
proceedings when victor beats his
equipment however the machinery shocks
gordon again reviving him
gordon goes crazy and tries to attack
lorelei he escapes the room so igor
chases him through the building
eventually igor corners gordon in a
hallway but turns around to attack igor
and when the two topple over the
banister about to plummet to their
deaths victor finds them and pulls
gordon though at igor's call for he
crushes gordon's head ending his second
life
later inspector turpin arrives at the
college to inspect the damage gordon
inflicted
finnegan visits victor and igor at
victor's townhouse he commends them for
the experiments and commissions them to
create another one but this time victor
wants to resurrect a human
igor wants nothing to do with finnegan
but victor overrules him
later inspector turpin and alastair pay
them a visit
he wants to search the doctor's home but
victor tells him to get a legal warrant
turpin and victor clash over god and
religion victor disdains turpin's
christianity and part on very bad terms
the next day igor meets lorelei for a
walk through she tells him how uneasy
victor's experiments make her she
believes victor goes too far igor finds
it difficult to chastise victor because
he believes he owes everything he has
become to victor
lorelei disagrees
igor agrees he will speak to victor
when he returns to the townhouse he
meets mr frankenstein victor's father
mr frankenstein has come to inform his
son that he has been expelled from the
college
igor overhears him tell victor that now
he has ruined his own life as opposed to
that of his brother
mr frankenstein's insults devastate
victor and igor decided not to voice his
concerns instead he snaps victor out of
his melancholy by pointing out that his
sketches of prometheus the reanimated
corpse are too small in order to make a
reanimated body that can sustain a
charge they need to build a very large
human
victor's enthusiasm returns
he and igor believe that if they put two
hearts and two sets of lungs into
prometheus and revive him via lightning
they can reanimate him igor sees
victor's pocket watch and asks if it
belonged to someone he loved
victor and igor work feverishly on
building prometheus
one night igor goes to a dance with
lorelai they have a wonderful time and
she takes him upstairs for some privacy
they spend the night together meanwhile
turpin's rage towards victor grows the
following morning when igor returns from
orlais party he finds turpin and a gang
of policemen trying to break down the
front door of victor's townhouse
igor sneaks inside and tells victor they
need to run
victor has sent for one of finnegan's
carriages but he wants to destroy his
machines before they leave
turpin sneaks in behind igor and pulls a
gun on the two men victor manages to
knock him into one of his machines and
turpin screams in agony as his hand is
caught in a heavy gear
victor and igor escape through an
underground passage and flee in
finnegan's carriage
turpin burst from victor's house having
lost his hand and an eye just in time to
see the finnegan family crest on the
carriage
finnegan doesn't seem to mind that
victor and igor are wanted by the police
he sends them to his family's castle in
scotland
when eagle refuses to go victor turns on
him he insults igor claiming igor will
never be accepted by society on his own
as igor watches his former mentor leave
finnegan's men sneak up behind him
they throw a bag over his head finnegan
has them throw igor off of westminster
bridge explaining that he wants his
family to control victor's life-giving
technology
he needs to clean up loose ends igor
manages to untie his feet and swim to
the surface he goes to lorelei who
nurses him back to health
after he recovers igor realizes he has
victor's watch
victor told igor that as a child he and
his older brother went outside to play
in the snow a blizzard blew in without
warning and his brother henry died
victor has always felt responsible for
taking his brother's life
igor decides to go to scotland to stop
victor's experiment and lorelei insists
upon traveling with him
when igor and lorelei arrive at
finnegan's isolated castle they
encounter an army of guards
lawley distracts them while igor sneaks
past them
when lorly tries to leave turpin
materializes out of nowhere he didn't
have a warrant to search victor's home
and was fired he is desperate to stop
victor's satanic work
inside the castle victor and finnegan
prepare for prometheuses resurrection
a lightning storm brews and they have
strapped the body into a cage attached
to electrical wires
when igor tries to stop victor victor
dismisses him turpin also manages to
sneak into the castle in time to see
lightning strike the body
slowly but unmistakably the finger
starts to move
finnegan and victor rejoice but when
more lightning strikes the tower the
machinery explodes
finnegan falls to his death
turpin confronts victor
both men are distracted when they
realize prometheus's cage is empty
victor turpin and igor see prometheus
standing across the tower
victor runs over to it while turpin
threatens to shoot
the creature moves slowly and does not
react to victor
victor quickly realizes what a mistake
he has made he has not created life at
all as prometheus has no consciousness
and cannot talk
turpin shoots prometheus and it attacks
victor in a rage
when turpin continues to shoot
prometheus it kills him
igor jumps into the fray and stabs
prometheus through the heart with a
spike the creature collapses but victor
reminds igor that prometheus has two
hearts it wars back to life hits igor
and he collapse just right after victor
stabs the second heart and ends
prometheus for good
when igor awakens the next morning
lordly stands over him she has a letter
from victor victor figures that igor has
had enough of him he apologizes for
being cruel to igor but also calls igor
his finest creation
lorelei and igor embrace
somewhere in the scottish countryside
victor sets out on a new adventure
thanks for watching
please don't forget to subscribe and
turn on the notification bell to get
notice when a new video is uploaded
[Music]